Windows support update (#1240)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: posts/2024-02-15-Windows-7.md

---
layout: post
title: "New Windows 7 targets and tier 1 deprecation"
author: Chris Denton
---

The minimum requirements for tier 1 toolchains targeting Windows will increase with the 1.77 release (scheduled for March 21, 2024).
Windows 10 will now be the minimum supported version.
These requirements apply both to running the Rust compiler itself and to running binaries produced by Rust, if they use the libstd.

> Additionally there are two new targets that have Windows 7 as their baseline: `x86_64-win7-windows-msvc` and `i686-win7-windows-msvc`.

Reviewer: Maybe list which tier they are?

Reviewer 2: it would be worth explicitly mentioning what tier 3 means here (not guaranteed to build, **no build artifacts provided**) and mention whether there are plans to upgrade them to tier 2, providing artifacts for users

Author: I'd love them to be tier 2 but I think the compiler team would need to weigh on that one?

Author: Ok, I've ambiguously said they're "starting" as tier 3. Which implies they might be promoted but doesn't actually say that. I can update it to be less squirely if/when there's more information.

---
layout: post
title: "Updated baseline standards for Windows targets"
author: Chris Denton on behalf of the Compiler Team
---

> The minimum requirements for Tier 1 toolchains targeting Windows will increase with the 1.77 release (scheduled for March 21, 2024).

Reviewer 3: This should be 1.78 right? Unless we're backporting the doc change 🙂

Author: I mean, couldn't we? It's early in the cycle. But, yeah, I don't mind changing it.

> Windows 10 will now be the minimum supported Rust version for the `*-pc-windows-*` targets.

Reviewer 4: Windows 10 is not a Rust version. 😄 

Depending on how specific you want to be:

```suggestion
Windows 10 will now be the minimum supported Windows version for the `*-pc-windows-*` Rust targets.
```

or

```suggestion
Windows 10 will now be the minimum supported Windows version for the `*-pc-windows-*` targets.
```

or

```suggestion
Windows 10 will now be the minimum supported version for the `*-pc-windows-*` targets.
```

These requirements apply both to the Rust toolchain itself and to binaries produced by Rust.

Two new targets have been added with Windows 7 as their baseline: `x86_64-win7-windows-msvc` and `i686-win7-windows-msvc`.
They are starting as Tier 3 targets, meaning that the Rust codebase has support for them but we don't build or test them automatically.

> Therefore binaries aren't distributed via rustup.

Reviewer 3: nit: sentence fragment

I think it would be better to word this in a way that gets to what users probably want to know, ie:

```suggestion
Once these targets reach Tier 2 status, they will be available to use via rustup.
```

Unless we don't think Win7 will ever be Tier 2 status for whatever reason.

## Affected targets

- `x86_64-pc-windows-msvc`
- `i686-pc-windows-msvc`
- `x86_64-pc-windows-gnu`

> - `i686-pc-windows-gnu`

Reviewer 3: I believe the `*-windows-gnullvm` targets are also affected right? Or are we only listing Tier 1 targets here?

```suggestion
- `i686-pc-windows-gnu`
- `x86_64-pc-windows-gnullvm`
- `i686-pc-windows-gnullvm`
```

## Why are the requirements being changed?

> Prior to now, Rust had Tier 1 support for Windows 7 and Windows 8 but these targets no longer meet our requirements.

Reviewer 4: Wasn't there a Windows 8.1? Probably not a big deal.

```suggestion
Prior to now, Rust had Tier 1 support for Windows 7, 8, and 8.1 but these targets no longer meet our requirements.
```

> In particular, these targets could no longer be tested in CI and are not supported by their vendor.

Reviewer 3: Maybe include a link to the Target Tier policy like

```suggestion
In particular, these targets could no longer be tested in CI which is required by the [Target Tier Policy](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rustc/target-tier-policy.html#tier-1-target-policy) and are not supported by their vendor.
```

---
layout: post
title: "New Windows 7 targets and tier 1 deprecation"

> author: Chris Denton

Reviewer 5: This should probably have a "on behalf of X team"

Author: Fair enough. I couldn't find any guidance so just clicked a few other posts on this repo. I guess it would be "The Compiler Team" as that's who ultimately approved the MCP?

Reviewer 3: We haven't always been consistent about following this but yeah, "The Compiler Team" is fine.

---

The minimum requirements for tier 1 toolchains targeting Windows will increase with the 1.77 release (scheduled for March 21, 2024).

> Windows 10 will now be the minimum supported version.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Windows 10 will now be the minimum supported Rust version for the `*-pc-windows-*` targets.
```

These requirements apply both to running the Rust compiler itself and to running binaries produced by Rust, if they use the libstd.

Additionally there are two new targets that have Windows 7 as their baseline: `x86_64-win7-windows-msvc` and `i686-win7-windows-msvc`.
They are starting as tier 3 targets, meaning that the Rust codebase has support for them but we don't build or test them automatically.
Therefore binaries aren't distributed via rustup.

## Affected targets

- `x86_64-pc-windows-msvc`
- `i686-pc-windows-msvc`
- `x86_64-pc-windows-gnu`
- `i686-pc-windows-gnu`

## Why are the requirements being changed?

> Prior to now, Rust claimed tier 1 support for Windows 7 and 8 but they did not meet the requirements.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Prior to now, Rust had Tier 1 support for Windows 7 and Windows 8 but these targets no longer meet our requirements.
```

> In particular they lacked automatic testing and are no longer supported by their vendor.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In particular, these targets could no longer be tested in CI and not supported by their vendor.
```

> With other software also dropping Windows 7 support, including developer tools such as git, it's becoming increasingly untenable to claim Rust offers first class support.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

```
I'm not sure this sentence adds much.
